# CS185-Skitty-Project: Code for C&S Bio 185 Project

CONTENT Pipeline Code that covers grabbing the data from the OneK1K cohort and GENCODE gene annotations, creating pseudobulked matrices of the single-cell RNA sequencing data from OneK1K, simulating genotype data following CONTENT paper parameters, running the CONTENT framework, and outputting various summary statistics files.

Run order: get_data.sh (download Onek1k and gene annotations, then create gene annotation .tsv file) -> make_pseudobulk.py (makes inverted pseudobulk matrices) -> fixing_pseudobulk.py (transposing pseudobulk matrices to correct CONTENT input orientation) -> run_pipeline_FINAL.sh (runs simulating_real_genotypes_FINAL.R to simulate genotype data, then run_content_FINAL.R to run the three CONTENT models and Context-by-Context framework 4 total times, one for the full-context run and once for each of 3 ablation runs, then training_summaries.R, testing_performance.R, testing_summaries.R which corrects errors in testing_performance.R, then genetic_sums.R to summarize and compute statistics for all four models).


### AI Use/Disclaimer: Use logs are not available, but the following summarizes AI usage across created code:

simulating_real_genotypes_FINAL: Gemini was used to understand how to apply reference paper simulation parameters to our simulation when drawing each of the randomly sampled genotypes. It was also used to create a framework for simulation based on most efficient compute order to load and extract information from large gene matrices. It was also used to confirm statistical and biological validity of our simulation methods, help debug the script to replicate original paper results, and create the empirical mask to introduce valid biological sparsity in simulated genotypes.

run_content_FINAL.R: Claude was used to make corrections to the script to follow reference paper parameters and procedures more exactly, but most of this script was taken directly from the original CONTENT paper GitHub (https://github.com/cozygene/CONTENT/blob/main/CONTENT_cli.R) with fairly minimal adjustments for naming conventions, parameters, machine core use, progress outputs, etc.

Generally, AI tools were often used to make script-wide naming convention/formatting edits when doing so manually would have taken exceedingly long, to proofread files when changes were made, and to clarify the purpose of various parameters in the reference paper. Since our simulation drew from real donor IDs, information, and cell-type data/expression while the original paper's simulation dataset was completely disconnected from any real information, AI was used to clarify the best procedures to integrate our OneK1K donor data with the original simulation parameters without creating irreconcilable disconnect. Additionally, AI provided advice on functions, packages, etc. to use to increase computational efficiency (ie. fread for large amounts of data and mclapply to run parallel workers on machine cores). 
